OOP - 
    is creating objects that contain both data and methods. 

Best practices for OOP Concepts in Java. 

a) DRY (Don't Repeat Yourself). You should never have two blocks of identical code in two different places. 
b) If you expect your JAva code to change in the future, encapsulate it by making all variables and methods private at the outset. 
c) Single Responsibility Principle. A class should always have only one functionality.
d) Open Closed Design. Make all methods and classes Closed for modifications but Open for an extension. That way, tried and tested code can remain static but can be modified to perform new tasks as needed.

2 groups of Datatypes: 
    Datatype - 
        Specifies the size and type of values that can be stored in an identifier.
    Primitive -
        Predifined by the language and named as a keyword.
        1) Byte -
            The smallest integer type is byte. It has a minimum value of -128 and a maximum value of 127 (inclusive). The byte data type can be useful for saving memory in large arrays, where the memory savings actually matters.
        2) Short -
            The short data type is a 16-bit signed two's complement integer. It has a minimum value of -32,768 and a maximum value of 32,767 (inclusive). As with byte, the same guidelines apply: you can use a short to save memory in large arrays, in situations where the memory savings actually matters.
        3) Int -
            The most commonly used integer type is int. It is a signed 32-bit type that has a range from –2,147,483,648 to 2,147,483,647. In addition to other uses, variables of type int are commonly employed to control loops and to index arrays.
        4) Long -
            long is a signed 64-bit type and is useful for those occasions where an int type is not large enough to hold the desired value. It has a minimum value of -9,223,372,036,854,775,808 and a maximum value of 9,223,372,036,854,775,807 (inclusive).
        5) Char -
            In Java, the data type used to store characters is char. The char data type is a single 16-bit Unicode character. It has a minimum value of '\u0000' (or 0) and a maximum value of '\uffff' (or 65,535 inclusive). There are no negative chars.
        6) Float -
            Floating-point numbers, also known as real numbers, are used when evaluating expressions that require fractional precision. For example interest rate calculation or calculating square root.
        7) Double -
            Double precision, as denoted by the double keyword, uses 64 bits to store a value. Double precision is actually faster than single precision on some modern processors that have been optimized for high-speed mathematical calculations. All transcendental math functions, such as sin( ), cos( ), and sqrt( ), return double values. 
        8) Boolean -
            The boolean data type has only two possible values: true and false. 

        Simple Types grouped in 4 groups:
            Integers - 
                Byte, Short, Int, Long 
                Which are the whole-value signed numbers. 

            Floating-point numbers - 
                Float, Double 
                Which represent numbers with fractional precisions. 
            
            Characters - 
                Char
                Which reprsents symbols in a character set, like letters and numbers. 
            
            Boolean - 
                Boolean
                Which is a special type for representing true/false values.

    Non-Primitive/Refence - 
        Refence variables are created using defined constructors of the classes.
        These variables are declared to be of a specific type that cannot be changed.
        Objects of vrious classes Strings and Arrays come under reference datatype.
